# Servo Technical Steering Committee Meeting

Date: 2023-01-23
Location: Jitsi

## Agenda

* Update on technical work and infrastructure
* How do we want to deal with governance and adding new folks to servo libraries in general, and cssparser in particular?
  https://servo.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/360909-rust-cssparser/topic/Repo.20and.20Crate.20Governance/near/322880352
* TSC meetings format: public agenda, open invitation, live minutes (Zulip channel or Google Doc or something else)
* New TSC member: Mukilan Thiyagarajan
* Linux Foundation Board
* Outreachy efforts
* Any Other Business

## Notes

attending: AnniLai, asajeffrey, cybai, delan, emilio, Loirooriol, Manishearth, mrego, mrobinson, matlu, SimonSapin

### Update on technical work and infrastructure

- mrego: first point is about updates on the technical work and infra, Martin has some things to discuss

#### Intermittent failures

- mrego: first thing is about intermittent failures that are causing lots of problems to merge patches
- mrobinson: there are lots of intermittent failures instead of having the list of tests that are known intermittents
- mrobinson: when a test fails, we re-run them in the CI, if they're flaky we send them to a dashboard but won't block CI from landing changes
- mrobinson: the dashboard would be able to collect statistics about flaky tests
- mrobinson: right now if it's on the list of intermittent it assumes it's a intermittent, and can be a complete failure
- AP(martin): propose this plan on a Zulip channel

#### Simplifying build dependency tree

- mrego: next point is about simplifying build dependency tree and see if some repos can be merged into the main one, Martin can explain this one too
- mrobinson: upgrading euclid was quite a shore due to the number of repositories that we have
- mrobinson: webxr or servo-media could be merged into servo
- emilio: euclid is also like the worse case, that probably doesn't happen in most case
- emilio: the repos that are not intended to be use outside of servo, makes sense
- emilio: why servo-media or webxr are a separate repo?
- SimonSapin: historically we have one repo per crate, in case it could be useful outside of Servo
- SimonSapin: having things separately makes things simpler for people working on those libraries without having to build the whole project
- Manishearth: this was kind of helping to keep projects hygiene
- Manishearth: separate things in different repos helps to make APIs not very messy
- mrego: probably the best idea would be discuss it case by case when the time comes

#### Supported platforms

- mrego: next point is about supported platforms, right now the website lists UWP (Universal Windows Platform) but build has been broken since ~1 year ago
- mrego: do we still need this platform or is no longer useful?
- asajeffrey: UWP is for HoloLens, my memory is that keeping the build alive required manual work because Microsoft deprecate things
- asajeffrey: so leaving things alone is expected things to be rotten
- mrobinson: it looks like the HoloLens project has been somehow canceled
- mrego: given that it probably makes sense to disable the UWP build and remove it from the website, as people might expect it to be working and we're no actively maintaining it anymore
- asajeffrey: yeah the platform we care more is Android, it'd be ok to remove UWP
- mrego: we have plans to take a look into Android build this year
- asajeffrey: the SDK should be more stable now so the task should be simpler than in the past
- mrego: that's good news

#### Repositories that Servo no longer use

- mrego: another topic is what to do with repositories that Servo no longer use but are still part of the Servo organization in GitHub
- mrego: one example is libfontconfig
- SimonSapin: using Archive option in the repo in GitHub if people are not active on it
- Manishearth: are we not using libfontconfig?
- mrobinson: I believe we have switched to a different crate
- Manishearth: someone had an issue related to library names due to Servo dependencies
- mrego: we'll check if things still depend on libfontconfig
- mrego: we should be 100% sure the projects are not used by Servo before archiving them
- mrego: if the project still has some activity we could offer to transfer it to other organization, probably that should be discussed when the time comes

###  How do we want to deal with governance and adding new folks to servo libraries in general, and cssparser in particular?

- mrego: closing the infra discussion, there's a question from Simon about what we want to do about adding new folks to Servo libraries in general, for example cssparser
- SimonSapin: it seems we don't have a policy about how to do this
- mrego: maybe we could have some kind of nominations (similar to what we're doing to add new TSC members)
- Manishearth: in the past we tried to have a period like would you like to be in the team?
- Manishearth: then we start tagging them on reviews, check how they do review and let them know how we do things
- Manishearth: sometimes we didn't do this because some people were very active (it was kind of optional)
- SimonSapin: this is a good way to do things
- SimonSapin: when a crate is somehow inactive someone would like to revive it, it's a different situation
- mrego: do we have activity on cssparser?
- SimonSapin: it seems slow but mostly from Gecko
- emilio: probably someone could start updating the style crate
- emilio: for cssparser I've been reviewing and implementing stuff there
- AP(mrego): draft a brief policy in the line of what was done before

### TSC meetings format: public agenda, open invitation, live minutes (Zulip channel or Google Doc or something else)

- mrego: next point is about TSC meetings format
- mrego: like having a public agenda in advance
- mrego: having the chance to invite non TSC members to some meetings
- mrego: and taking minutes in a Zulip channel (or Google Doc or something like that)
- mrego: we could use issues on the repo called "project" in the Servo organization (where the minutes are published) with the agenda
- mrego: then take some live minutes like it's done in some W3C working groups (e.g. CSSWG)
- emilio: it seems like a good idea
- mrego: people seems generally supportive of the idea

### New TSC member: Mukilan Thiyagarajan

- mrego: we have Mukilan as new TSC member, that was approved in Zulip last week

### Linux Foundation Board

- mrego: about the Linux Foundation Board, we're trying to contact Todd from LF to talk about the status of the project and things there
- mrego: there was also some past discussion about the project model in LF for Servo in the past, that we might want to retake at some point
- mrego: we'll keep you updated when we have more info

### Outreachy efforts

- mrego: this year we'll be doing some outreachy efforts to try to bring more companies and contributors interested in the project
- mrego: Matts and Anni will be leading this effort and will be reporting in the TSC meetings about status of things there
- matlu: it's 10 years of Servo this year, there seems there's a lot of interest about the project, and in Europe in particular
- matlu: also people seem excited about the possibility to have an independent rendering engine
- matlu: we'll be reporting more in future meetings

### Any Other Business

- mrego: AOB?
- cybai: with the announcement in the last Servo blog post, some people are asking about the roadmap for the project
- cybai: maybe we can publish the roadmap so contributors and the rust community know better about our plans
- mrego: good point, yeah there's a roadmap in the wiki from 2020, we should update it and probably announce that this year
- AP(mrego): work on an update of the project roadmap

## Action Points

- mrobinson: Propose the plan for dealing with intermittent failures on a Zulip channel
- mrego: Draft a policy about how to add contributors to Servo libraries
- mrego: Work on an update of the project roadmap

