# Servo Technical Steering Committee Meeting
# Servo TSC Meeting June 2024

*  Date: [Monday 24th June 2024 at 15:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Servo%20TSC%20Meeting%20June%202024%20(2024-06-24)&iso=20240624T1500)
* Location: https://meet.jit.si/Servo-TSC

## Agenda

* Status update
* Crowdfunding
* Multi-process
* Triage issues meetings
* AI policy
* Outreach
* AOB

## Notes

Attending:
* TSC members: atbrakhi, gterzian, Loirooriol, mrego, mrobinson, nicoburns
* Other: frereit, jschwe, matlu, Mikopet, ststimac, Taym95, wusyong, zrhoffman

### Status update

rego: Updates for last month:
* Work on the layout engine, tables work has resumed.
* Lots of improvements to inline layout code white-space: collapse, break-spaces.
* Lots of changes to fonts subsystem. Servo can render emoji on different platforms, etc.
* Big PR for initial implementation of `ResizeObserver.
* A few other things.

rego: Outreachy internship has started on the Servo project for improving devtools support. Already seeing improvements. You can use devtools to connect to Servo. Maybe you can use the console. More improvements coming.

### Crowdfunding

rego: Quite a lot of sponsors, GitHub and OpenCollective. We now have 5000 USD to use. On the Linux Foundation side, the LFX crowdfunding is still opened. LF said they were about to move the money.

rego: There has been an idea to use the money to improve CI times, Delan, Nico and sagudev working on this. Waiting for proposal.

### Multi-process

yu wei: I was creating issues in the past few weeks around multiprocess. There was an issue with preferences, that is fixed now -- caused by enabling multiprocess mode. Should we make it used by default, so you can test it via WPT. Challenges: it's not working on Windows. I think it's possible to do it, we just need to add sandboxing on Windows.

yu wei: I feel like it's possible to do it and it might be a cool side project for someone to explore.

yu wei: The second is that I feel like we should test the mulitprocess mode with WPT as well.

yu wei: Is there a plan to do this?

martin: about running multi-process for WPT tests, I believe this is something we want to do, I think there are a lot of issues with bugs in multi-process mode

martin: if you try to run one test, and see the command line WPT passes to Servo; if you try the same with multi-process mode; many of them fail (the dance we do to take a screenshot is pretty tricky)

martin: this can be a good idea if someone wants to take a look to this project

yu wei: someone reported performance issues with IPC

martin: yeah there are probably some sending a lot of data through the IPC channel, in which cases we might need to use shared data

yu wei: have been these issues repoted?

martin: I donÂ´t think there has been a solid effort to run WPT tests with multi-process

yu wei: I'll test it in my device, and share the results

yu wei: That's it for me. I will probably test on my device and share my results in a Zulip topic or GitHub issue.

greg: Regarding the multiprocess discussion: there aren't really WPT that test the feature itself. On the other hand, we are looking at the Speedometer with Servo. cybai has confirmed that he is interested.

yu wei: I was asking cybai if he was interested in Servo again and he said maybe benchmarks.

yu wei: It's good for busy folks.

### Triage issues meeting

rego: Greg raised the idea of a biweekly triage session where we look at open issues in Script.

greg: My initial idea was to do triage for Script, but Sript interacts with other components. We can start with the more general ones though. I had this idea because were were doing this work to fix the HTML event loop, but they are necessarily good first bugs, but there are people who may be interested. There's also ReadableStream. We are starting to work on that. It could benefit from that.

rego: Of course, we couldn't triage all the issues. It's totally fine to start focusing on topics that folks are working on. We could have a generic meeting and then in the meeting focus on certain things.

greg: I could schedule something. I would start with the issues I filed.

rego: Who would be willing to join this? Maybe we can create an issue in the Servo project GitHub. People can react there if they are interested. Probably it's too much to invite the whole TSC. I was inspired by the way the WHATWG has it. It's usually cancelled, but if there are enough people willing to attend we can introduce issues to them.

yu wei: I would join. I'm working on ReadableStreams, but the scope is enormous. I saw people working on the Script crate, but on different perspectives. Some working on WebGPU and others on WebIDL bindings. They could join and help to verify that their implementation of the spec is correct. People could get familiar with all the types in Servo.

rego: Greg will create the issue and then you can comment there if you will attend the call.

### AI policy

rego: https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/32287

rego: After some discussion, the PR is approved. Unless someone has concerns, it can land. We can mention it in a few days on the Zulip stream. We can merge during this week.

rego: Unless someone wants to discuss this now, this is just a FYI.

### Outreach

rego: https://github.com/Igalia/webengineshackfest/issues/28

rego: There was a Servo breakout session at the WEH.

rego: Not aware of any upcoming events.

### AOB

rego: If no one else has a topic, we are done for today.

